you
so I cure Leo how we rewrite the clear
like holder which we are functioning
into a form that looks like that the
formula on this slide after we make the
assumption about the smoothing the land
with model based on the collection a
name is model now if you look at the
this rewriting it actually would give us
two benefits the first benefit is it
helps us better understand this ranking
function in particular we're going to
show that from this formula we can see
smoothing with the traction and with
model will give us of something like the
tf-idf waiting and thence normalization
the second benefit is that it also
allows us to computer the query like
holder more efficiently in particular we
see that the main part of the formula is
a sum over the match the query times so
this is much better than if we take a
sum over all the worlds after we smooth
the document the damage model we stand
your I have nonzero probabilities for
the words so this new form of the
formula is much easier to score or to
compute it's also interesting to note
that the last term here is actually
independent of the document since our
goal is to rank the document for the
same query we can ignore this term for
ranking because it's going to be the
same for all the documents ignoring it
wouldn't affect the order of the
documents inside the Sun we also see
that each match the query term would
contribute a weight and this weight
actually is very interesting because it
looks like the TF I get waiting first we
have already see it has a frequency of
the word in a query just like in the
vector space model when we take a dot
product we see the word frequency in the
query to show up in such a son and so
naturally this part would correspond to
the vector element from the document
vector and here indeed we can see it
actually encodes a weight that has
similarly factor to TF I get waiting I
let you examine can you see it can you
see which part is captioning TF and
which part is capturing IDF way so if
you want even pause the video to think
more about it so have you noticed that
this piece of scene is related to the
term frequency in the sense that if a
word occurs very frequently in the
document then the S major power pin in
here would tend to be larger and so this
means this term is really doing
something like a TF way now have you
also noticed that this term in the
denominator is actually achieving the
factor of IDF why because this is the
popularity of the term in a collection
but it's in the denominator so if the
probability in the collection is larger
then the weight is after a smaller and
this means a popular term we actually
have a smaller weight and this is
precisely what IDF weighting is doing
only that we now have a different form
of Kiev and IDF remember IDF has a log
logarithm of document frequency here we
have something different but intuitively
it achieves a similar effect interesting
we also have something related to the
land fluoridation again can you see
which factor is really talking the lens
in this formula but I just say that that
this term is related to IDF wedding this
this collection probability but it turns
out that this term here is actually
related to talking millions normal-ish
in particular alpha sub D might be
related to document length lens so it it
encodes how much probably in the mass we
want to
give two unseen words how much smoothing
do we want to do I intuitively if the
documents are long then we need to do
less mozi because we assume that there
is large enough we probably have
observed all the words that the author
could have written but the document is a
short the office of tea could be
expected to be to be large
we need to do more smoothing it's like
that there are words that have not been
written yet by the other so this term
appears to paralyze non documenting that
the office of tea would tend to be
longer than are larger than a four long
document but note that the office of the
also occurs here and so this may not
actually be necessary penalizing long
documents to the effect that is not so
clear
yeah but as we will see later when we
consider some specific smoothing methods
it turns out that they do penalize long
talking it just like in tf-idf waiting
in the documents memorization formulas
in the vector space model so that's a
very interesting observation because it
means we don't even have to think about
a specific way of doing smoothing we
just need to assume that if we smooth
with this correction damage model then
we would have a formula that looks like
tf-idf wedding and document
normalization what's also interesting
that we have very fixed form of the
ranking function and see we have not
heuristic Li put a logarithm here in
fact you can think about why we will
have a logarithm here if you look at the
assumptions that we have made to be
clear it's because we have used the
logarithm of clear like hold for scorn
and we turned the product into a sum of
logarithm of probability and that's why
we have this lower note that if we only
want to heuristic Li implement the chief
wedding and IDF wedding we don't
necessarily have to have a logarithm
here imagine if we drop this logarithm
we would still have
and IDF waiting but what's nice with
probabilistic modeling is that we are
automatically given a logarithm function
here and that's basically a fixed reform
of the formula that we did not really
have to heuristic a design and in this
case if you try to drop this logarithm
the model probably won't one work as
well as if you keep logarithm so a nice
property of probabilistic modeling is
that by following some assumptions and
the probability rules we'll get a
formula automatically and the formula
would have a particular form like in
this case and if we here is to get
design the formula we may not
necessarily end up by having such a
specific form so to summarize we'll talk
about the need for smoothing a document
damage model otherwise would give a zero
probability for and seen words in the
document and that's not good for scoring
a query with such an unseen world it's
also necessary in general to improve the
accuracy of estimating the model
representing the topic of this document
the general idea of smoothing in
retrieval is to use the collective
memory model to give us some clue about
the which and C was should have a high
probability that is the probability of
an unseen world is assumed to be
proportional to its probability in the
collection with this assumption we've
shown that we can derive a general
ranking formula for query like hope that
has a factor of tf-idf wedding and
document normalization we also see that
through some rewriting the scoring of
such a ranking function is primary based
on some of weights on matched query
returns just like in the vector space
model but the actual ranking function is
given as automatically by the
probability rules and assumptions that
we have made and like getting the vector
space model where we have two heuristic
Li think about the form of the function
however with
to address the question how exactly we
should smooth a lock in the damage model
how exactly we should use the reference
language model based on the connection
to adjust with the probability of the
maximum micro resume them and this is
the topic of the next lecture
you
[Music]